## Software and Platform 

- **Software**: Google Colab
- **Add-on package**: Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Statsmodels, Scikit-learn, re 
- **Platform**: Mac

## Documentation Map 

- **Data Folder**: Contains all data
  - 'HealthCareOriginalData.csv': Our original dataset, downloaded from the Bureau of Economic Analysis in the U.S. Department of Commerce and uploaded to Github.
  - 'Cleaned_data.csv': Our cleaned data, created from the 'Project2MI3_Cleaning.ipynb' and used for the rest of the EDA and analysis.
  - 'Data Appendix - Project 2.pdf': Description of the data used
- **Scripts Folder**: Contains all source code and scripts
  - 'Project2MI3_Cleaning.ipynb': Data cleaning script, creates 'Cleaned_data.csv'
  - 'Project2MI2EDA.ipynb': Exploratory data analysis on our cleaned dataset
  - 'MI3_TrendAnalysis.ipynb': Analysis of trend using cleaned dataset and moving average 
  - 'MI3_Prediction.ipynb': Analysis of prediction using train and test sets
  - 'DataAppendix.ipynb': Used to create 'Data Appendix - Project 2.pdf'
- **Output Folder**: Contains output generated by analysis
  - 'MI2_EDA': Folder containing pertinent figures from EDA
    - 'Box Plot of Outpatient and Hospital Spending.png'
    - 'Healthcare Spending Over Time by Subcategories.png'
    - 'Outpatient, Hospital, and Nursing Home Spending.png'
  - 'MI3': Folder containing pertinent figures from analysis
    - 'Forecast for Healthcare Spending in 2024 Q3.png'
    - 'Forecast for Total Healthcare Spending in 2025.png'
    - 'Healthcare Spending Over Time (Moving Average).png'
    - 'R-squared Values for ARIMA Model Predictions by Service.png'
   
## Reproduction Information 
1. **Data Gathering**: We got out data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis in the U.S. Department of Commerce - [National Data - National Income and Product Accounts] (https://apps.bea.gov/iTable/?reqid=19&step=2&isuri=1&categories=survey&_gl=1*1hz95g3*_ga*OTA0NjM2ODc4LjE3MjgzMTU5MTg.*_ga_J4698JNNFT*MTcyODMxNTkxOC4xLjEuMTcyODMxNjAwMC42MC4wLjA.#eyJhcHBpZCI6MTksInN0ZXBzIjpbMSwyLDMsM10sImRhdGEiOltbImNhdGVnb3JpZXMiLCJTdXJ2ZXkiXSxbIk5JUEFfVGFibGVfTGlzdCIsIjcwIl0sWyJGaXJzdF9ZZWFyIiwiMjAyMCJdLFsiTGFzdF9ZZWFyIiwiMjAyNCJdLFsiU2NhbGUiLCItOSJdLFsiU2VyaWVzIiwiUSJdXX0=). However, we have uploaded it to this GitHub repository under the _Data Folder_. The scripts include fetching the data from our Github repo.
2. **Data Cleaning**: To reproduce our cleaned dataset, run the 'Project2MI3_Cleaning.ipynb' script. We downloaded the final dataframe and uploaded it to Github. The future scripts will fetch the cleaned dataset from the _Data Folder_.
3. **Exploratory Data Analysis**: To explore the data and gather initial insights to refine the analysis plan, run the 'Project2MI2EDA.ipynb' script under the _Scripts Folder_.
4. **Analysis**: To conduct analysis on the data, there are 2 main files to run: 
'MI3_TrendAnalysis.ipynb' and 'MI3_Prediction.ipynb'. You can find all of these files in the _Scripts Folder_. We decided to look at the trend of healthcare spending for 2004 Q1 through 2024 Q1 to account for enough years for prediction analysis.  

## References 
[1] “National Data - National Income and Product Accounts,” Bureau of Economic Analysis, https://apps.bea.gov/iTable/?reqid=19&step=2&isuri=1&categories=survey&_gl=1*1hz95g3*_ga*OTA0NjM2ODc4LjE3MjgzMTU5MTg.*_ga_J4698JNNFT*MTcyODMxNTkxOC4xLjEuMTcyODMxNjAwMC42MC4wLjA.#eyJhcHBpZCI6MTksInN0ZXBzIjpbMSwyLDMsM10sImRhdGEiOltbImNhdGVnb3JpZXMiLCJTdXJ2ZXkiXSxbIk5JUEFfVGFibGVfTGlzdCIsIjcwIl0sWyJGaXJzdF9ZZWFyIiwiMjAyMCJdLFsiTGFzdF9ZZWFyIiwiMjAyNCJdLFsiU2NhbGUiLCItOSJdLFsiU2VyaWVzIiwiUSJdXX0= (accessed Oct. 9, 2024).
